

  
                        
                        
    
    
    
    
    Tactic Proofs
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  
    
      
        

      
        
            The Lean Language Reference

          

      
    
      

      
        
          
              The Lean Language Reference

            
            
              
                Table of Contents

              1.Introduction
2.Elaboration and Compilation
3.Interacting with Lean
4.The Type System
5.Source Files and Modules
6.Namespaces and Sections
7.Definitions
8.Axioms
9.Attributes
10.Type Classes
11.Coercions
12.Run-Time Code
13.Terms
14.Tactic Proofs
15.The Simplifier
16.The grind tactic
17.The mvcgen tactic
18.Functors, Monads and do-Notation
19.Basic Propositions
20.Basic Types
21.IO
22.Iterators
23.Notations and Macros
24.Build Tools and Distribution
Validating a Lean Proof
Error Explanations
Release Notes
Supported Platforms
Index

            
              
                14. Tactic Proofs

              14.1.Running Tactics
14.2.Reading Proof States
14.3.The Tactic Language
14.4.Options
14.5.Tactic Reference
14.6.Targeted Rewriting with conv
14.7.Naming Bound Variables
14.8.Custom Tactics

            

          

        
          
            
              Source Code

            
              Report Issues

            
          

        
      

      
          
            ←13.13. Proofs14.1. Running Tactics→
          
            
              14. Tactic Proofs🔗

            
              The tactic language is a special-purpose programming language for constructing proofs.
In Lean, propositions are represented by types, and proofs are terms that inhabit these types.
The section on propositions describes propositions in more detail.
While terms are designed to make it convenient to indicate a specific inhabitant of a type, tactics are designed to make it convenient to demonstrate that a type is inhabited.
This distinction exists because it's important that definitions pick out the precise objects of interest and that programs return the intended results, but proof irrelevance means that there's no technical reason to prefer one proof term over another.
For example, given two assumptions of a given type, a program must be carefully written to use the correct one, while a proof may use either without consequence.

            
              Tactics are imperative programs that modify a proof state.
A proof state consists of an ordered sequence of goals, which are contexts of local assumptions together with types to be inhabited; a tactic may either succeed with a possibly-empty sequence of further goals (called subgoals) or fail if it cannot make progress.
If a tactic succeeds with no subgoals, then the proof is complete.
If it succeeds with one or more subgoals, then its goal or goals will be proved when those subgoals have been proved.
The first goal in the proof state is called the main goal.
While most tactics affect only the main goal, operators such as <;> and all_goals can be used to apply a tactic to many goals, and operators such as bullets, next or case can narrow the focus of subsequent tactics to only a single goal in the proof state.

            
              Behind the scenes, tactics construct proof terms.
Proof terms are independently checkable evidence of a theorem's truth, written in Lean's type theory.
Each proof is checked in the kernel, and can be verified with independently-implemented external checkers, so the worst outcome from a bug in a tactic is a confusing error message, rather than an incorrect proof.
Each goal in a tactic proof corresponds to an incomplete portion of a proof term.

            
              
                14.1. Running Tactics

              
                14.2. Reading Proof States

              
                14.3. The Tactic Language

              
                14.4. Options

              
                14.5. Tactic Reference

              
                14.6. Targeted Rewriting with conv

              
                14.7. Naming Bound Variables

              
                14.8. Custom Tactics

              
            
          
            ←13.13. Proofs14.1. Running Tactics→
          

        

    
  

